**Components are Independent, isolated and reusable pieces of code that are fundamental building blocks of React Application. **

In React, Components are written as JavaScript functions that return a block of HTML syntax known as JSX. 

# Rules
To Create a Component we need to adhere to some rules.
## Naming
**Component names must always start with a capital letter. **

React uses casing to differentiate between standard HTML tags. For example: 
- `<button>` : This tells React to render a HTML button element
- `<Button />` : This tells React that there exists a user defined component by this name and so it look for it. 

## Single Parent
**A Component must return exactly one single root parent element**

Under the hood, JavaScript function cannot return two values simultaneously. Returning more than one elements like `<h1>` along with `<p>` will crash the builder. 

For example: 
```Javascript
function App(){
	return(
		<h1>Hello World</h1>
		<p>Hello World</p>
	)
}
```
This will crash the code. 
## React Fragments
But what if we really want to send more than one HTML tags. For this We have two solutions
### Using Div or any other enclosing tag. 
Enclose one of more HTML tags inside another the HTML and then return it. 

```Javascript
function App(){
	return(
	<div>
		<h1>Hello World</h1>
		<p>Hello World</p>
	</div>
	)
}
```
Final Browser Output: 
```HTML
<div> 
	<h1>Hello</h1> 
	<p>World</p> 
</div>
```
However this method has a real and big drawback, that it also injects the `<div>` element even if we don't want to. 

### The Standard Solution 
The Standard and Recommended approach is to use React Fragments `<> ... </>`. It allows us to enclose the elements or other components inside them.  React Fragments disappears after rendering , leaving zero trace in the final HTML. 
```Javascript
function App(){
	return(
	<>
		<h1>Hello World</h1>
		<p>Hello World</p>
	</>
	)
}
```
Final Browser Output: 
```HTML
<h1>Hello</h1> 
<p>World</p> 
```

# Practical Implementation 
## Defining a Component
```JavaScript
import './index.css'
  
function App(){
  return(
    <>
	    <h1>Heading</h1>
	    <p>This is the First Message</p>
    </>
  )
}
  
export {App};
```

## Nested Components

```JavaScript
  

function Nested(){
  return (
    <>
      <App/>
      <h1>Nested</h1>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Calling a Component
In JavaScript calling a component is different than calling a function. we can do that in two ways: 
### Self Closing Tags: 
Example: `<App/>`
### Opening and Closing Tags:
Example: `<App> </App>`

### Illegal but working Method: 
Since under the hood, React components are basically methods so we can call them as function like `App()`. However this is not recommended.

# Calling in from HTML
We find only one empty `div` element with class name `root`. 
```html
<div id="root"></div>
```
Now in `main.jsx` or whatever the file name is, we call it using functions. 
```JavaScript
import { StrictMode } from 'react'
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import App from './App'

createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <StrictMode>
    <App/>
  </StrictMode>
)
```
## Explanation: 
- `createRoot()`:
  It is a special tool imported from `react-dom/client`. it acts as a portal creator. it takes the blank element from html and hand it over to the react engine giving it complete control and rights. 
  
- `.render()`:
  We pass the component inside the this function. React calls the component. It then builds the tree structure. Once it is built, react then converts it into real browser HTML elements and injects it straight inside that div element of main html file. 

# Creating Your own Element
We can create element using `createElement(type,props,...children)` function. We can use it:
```javascript
const reactElement=createElement(
  'a',
  {href: "https://google.com"},
  'Click Me!'
)
```
this will create another component using `createElement()` method. 

# Variables
We can add variables using `{}` brackets. But we can only add evaluated expression in it. 
```javascript
function App(){
  const username="Hello"
  return(
    <>
    <h1>Heading</h1>
    <p>This is the First Message {username}</p>
    </>
  )
}
```
