 In Vanilla JavaScript, we had to manually update a variable and then write explicit code to find and update the HTML element in the UI. On the other hand, React automatically re renders the UI to match on the update of data. **Hooks** are the direct key to updating UI in modern React function. 
# Rules
- **Data Changes -> UI Changes:** React only updates the UI when a component's **State** or **Props** change.
  
- **Hooks are the Key:** In function components, hooks are the only way to create and update that state.
  
- **The React Loop:** After triggering a hook's setter function. React re-runs the component. Then the UI updates.

# The Re-render Rule for Regular Variables
Every single time any state changes (like our `counter`), the entire function component runs from the top down.

- **State variables (`useState`)** are remembered by React across renders.
  
- **Regular variables (`let`, `var`)** are completely destroyed and reset to their starting values on every render.

# React Interview Questions / Batch Update:
if the counter is currently 155, what will the output of the current code: 
```javascript
function App() {
  const [counter,setCounter]=useState(155);
  setCounter(counter + 1);
  setCounter(counter + 1);
  setCounter(counter + 1);
  setCounter(counter + 1);
}
```
The answer will be 156. 
## Reason:
React updates the UI in batches. It does not re render for every line of code. Instead, it wait for the entire function to finish executing, groups all `setCounter` requests together into a batch and processes only the final update. so for react the code looks like:
```javascript
setCounter(155 + 1); 
setCounter(155 + 1); 
setCounter(155 + 1); 
setCounter(155 + 1); 
```
## The Fix
So although if we really wanted to increment is four times we could use `setCounter(counter + 4)` , so try to ignore that. However if we really want to use like this then we need to pass a callback function to `setCounter` . 

Every state updater function like `setCounter` is built to accept two different types of argument. 
- A direct Value
- A callback function 

The callback function takes the most up to the millisecond value of the state. React automatically injects the latest value in the first parameter. Whatever the callback function returns becomes the new value. 
```javascript
  setCounter((prev) => prev+1));
```
so the solution to above problem will be: 
```javascript
function App() {
  const [counter,setCounter]=useState(155);
  setCounter(prevCount => prevCount + 1);
  setCounter(prevCount => prevCount + 1);
  setCounter(prevCount => prevCount + 1);
  setCounter(prevCount => prevCount + 1);
}
```

Using the callback function does not stop batching. React still batches. The only difference is that when using direct values, React batches the requests by overwriting them. It only cares about last instance/snapshot of the value. When we pass the callback function, React waits until the end of function, but instead of overwriting the values, it puts functions into a queue and runs them in a chain reaction. 
# useState Hook
For above mentioned process, `useState()` is used so that function components could have a memory to store data and change it over time. 

Updating a standard JS variable updates memory, but only `useState()` triggers React to update the UI. 

It returns an array of two elements. One is the variable and the other is the function which takes a new value as argument to update the variable
```javascript
const [state, setState] = useState(initialValue);
```
Example:  Below component `App()` uses `useState()` as a counter.
```javascript
function App() {  

let [counter,setCounter] = useState(15)
  const addValue=()=>{
    setCounter(counter+1)
  }

  const removeValue=()=>{
    setCounter(counter-1)
  }

  return (
    <>
      <h1>Chai aur React</h1>
      <h2>Counter Value : {counter}</h2>
      <button onClick={addValue}>Add Value</button>
      <br />
      <button onClick={removeValue}>Remove Value</button>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Use of `const` in `useState`
Consider a React Code
```javascript
const [counter, setCount] = useState(155);
```
So core basic confusion is: if the variable `counter` is a constant, it should not work. since the function `setCount` will try to change the constant. But it works. 

Calling `setCount(156)` does not reinitialize the variable directly. It triggers a 3 step chain:
- **Memory Update:**
  React Updates the internal memory from 155 to 156 
  
- **Re-Render:**
  React triggers a re run of the entire component
  
- **Fresh Creation:**
  The function executes again from top to bottom. `useState` grabs the new value 156 from memory and assigns it to a completely fresh `const counter` variable for that specific run. 
# useCallback Hook: 
`useCallback` is a React Hook that caches (memoizes) a function definition between component re-renders. By default, every function inside a React component is recreated from scratch on every single render. Wrapping a function in `useCallback` tells React to keep the exact same function instance across renders unless its dependencies change. 
## Problem and Solution: 
By default in JS, every function in React is re rendered every time. It runs from top to bottom like normal JS functions. Consider Example: 
```javascript
function MyComponent() {
  const handleClick = () => {
    console.log("Clicked!");
  }; 
}
```
Every time it is re rendered, a brand new instance is created, so render #1 function is not equal to render #2 function. 
So when we use `useCallback`, we are telling React to save this function in memory. On next render, i will take the exact same instance unless my dependencies change. 
## Syntax
```javascript
const cachedFunction = useCallback( 
() => {}, // Function logic
[] // Dependency Array
);
```

# useEffect Hook: 
The `useEffect` hook tells React to **synchronously synchronize the UI with an external system or trigger an action automatically when state changes**
## Syntax
```javascript
useEffect(
() => {}, 
[variable1, variable2]
); 
```

# useRef Hook: 
**`useRef`** is a built-in React Hook that returns a mutable object with a single property:`.current`
It has two purposes: 
- **Referencing DOM Nodes:** Directly accessing, measuring, or manipulating HTML elements on the screen.
- **Persisting Variables:** Storing values that persist across re-renders without triggering a new render when changed

## Syntax:
```javascript
const myRefBox = useRef(initialValue);
```

# useId Hook:
The `useId` hook is a built-in React hook used to **generate unique, stable IDs** that can be passed directly to HTML accessibility attributes. React guarantees that any ID generated by `useId` will never conflict with other IDs generated by `useId`. However it ignores or knows nothing about the hardcoded strings we declare. These ID's are stable and does not change on every re render. 
## Syntax 
```javascript
const uniqueId=useId();
```