The Context API is a built in Feature that allows us to share data globally across component tree without having to pass props down manually through every nested level. It main purpose is to solve the issue of **Props Drilling**
# Problem: Props Drilling
It is the process of passing data down through multiple layers of nested components via props, even when the middle components do not need the data. 
Consider a React Components. 
```text
App
│
├── Navbar
│
├── Main
│   ├── Profile
│   │   └── UserInfo
│   │       └── Avatar
```
let say a prop named `age` is stored in `App` and is needed in `Avatar`
```JSX
const age = 25
```
So a common and straight forward way is to pass it through ever level
```JSX
<App user={age}>
<Main user={age}>
<Profile user={age}
<UserInfo user={age}>
<Avatar user={age}>
```
So even though only `Avatar` needed it, we still had to pass to the components where it is wasn't needed and simply because they were in the path. This is called `Prop Drilling`

# Solution: Context API
Instead of handling the data through every component. We will create a global storage and shelf. 
```text
Global Shelf (Context)
age = 25
```
Now we can give access of this shelf to any component when it is needed.
```text
App
│
├── Navbar  ----> Reads Context
│
├── Main
│   ├── Profile
│   │   └── Avatar ----> Reads Context
```
No passing props through unnecessary components. 

# Syntax
## Creating a Context
`createContext()` initializes a context or global shelf. 
```JSX
import {createContext()} from 'react';
const Context1 = createContext();
```
It is like Creating the box. 
## Provider
Using it we can provide data and give access to child components who want to use the context. `value` is a fixed keyword. We wrap them into a JS object.
```JSX
<Context1.Provider value={{name,age}}>
<App/>
</Context1.Provider>
```
Now `<App/>` can access `age` from `Context1`. If we wrap a component with a `Provider`, then that component and all its descendants can access the context. 
## Use Context
Even if a child is given access to the Context, it cannot read it until and unless it calls it. `useContext` allows us to read data. 
```JSX
import { useContext } from "react";
const user = useContext(Context1);
// or
const {name,age} = useContext(Context1);
```
# Example: 
## Context.jsx
```JSX
import { createContext } from "react";
const Context1=createContext()
export default Context1
```
## App.jsx
```JSX
import { useState } from 'react'
import { useContext } from 'react'
import Context1 from '../Context/Context'

function Main2(){
  const {user,age}=useContext(Context1)
  return (
    <h1>User is {user} and {age}</h1>
  )
}

function Main(){
  return (
    <Main2/>
  )
}

function App() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0)
  const user="Joe"
  const age=25
 return (
  <Context1.Provider value={{user,age}}>
    <Main/>
  </Context1.Provider>
 )
}

export default App
```

# Second Method of Storing Data
In the above examples, we sent data in Providers section. However we can send data in context during creation by adding an object to it. 
```JSX
const Context1 = createContext({user:25})
```
But React overwrites any other value passed to it for storing, so we need to make sure that we append the old values with the new one and then pass. 

More over, we can also export variables like :
```JSX
const contextProvider = Context.Provider
```
so that we can use it for our convenience. 

# Note:
- On every reload, the context state will completely reset back to its original value because react state only lives in the browser's computer memory RAM. 
- We can make hooks and `useState` for Context data only at the providers component where they are initially created. Not at child. 


