Redux is an opensource JavaScript library for managing and centralizing application state. It acts as a single source for entire application so it can make sure that changes remain predictable. 
# Problem
## Unnecessary Re Renders:
If a Context value changes, every component using that value will be re rendered even if it does not need it. 
## State Logic:
Context forces us to write state logic inside React Components or custom hook with UI. 
# Solution with Redux
## Selecting
Components select exactly what data is needed and only re render if that specific data changes
# Initialization
Redux is initialized by command
```bash
npm install @reduxjs/toolkit
```
and for React Bindings we need another command
```bash
npm install react-redux
```
# Working
React works on **Single Source of Truth** principle. There must be only one global storage space where we store data. Unlike ContextAPI which allows us to create multiple context, Redux forces us to create one and only one global shelf or **The Store** in Redux's Language. 
## Store
A centralized location where all the data is stored. 
## Actions
An Action is JS object that describes what we want to do with the state. It does not change the state. It just announces the intention. It must have a `type` string (title) and can optionally carry a `payload` (data).
## Dispatch 
Dispatch is a function provided by Redux. It is the only way to send an Action to the centralized store. Components cannot talk to store directly. 
## Reducer
A Reducer is a pure function that takes the current state and the actions we dispatched. It then calculates the new state and return it. Reducers are the only things allows to modify the store. 
## Selector
A selector function that lets the React Components to look inside the store and grab the exact piece of knowledge they want. 

## The Cycle
1. User Interacts with Component
2. The Component triggers the **Dispatch** with an **Action**.
3. The **Dispatch** passes **Action** to **Reducer**
4. The **Reducer** processes change and updates the central **Store**
5. The **Store** alerts the component through a **Selector** and UI updates on Screen. 

## Slices
Since there is a central store, the data would be messy if not handled correctly. For this, we use the concept of **Slices**. A **Slice** is an isolated, self contained block of state logic that handles one specific feature. Every Slice has three foundational configs: 
- Name
- Initial State
- Reducers

# Code
## Configuring Store
```JSX
import {configureStore} from '@reduxjs/toolkit'
export const Store=configureStore({
	reducer: todoSlice.reducer
})
```
## Making a Slice
```JSX
import { createSlice, nanoid } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";

const initialState={
    todos:[{id:1,text:"Hello World"}]
}

export const todoSlice=createSlice({
    name:'todo',
    initialState:initialState,
    reducers:{
        addtodo:(state,action)=>{},
        removeTodo:(state,action)=>{},
    }
})
```
Every reducer method gets `state` and `action` variables. `state` variable gives the old state. `action` are the values from dispatch. 
## Dispatcher
```JSX
const dispatch=useDispatch()
```
Dispatch changes value using reducer. 
```JSX
const addTodoHandler=(e)=>{
    e.preventDefault()
    dispatch(addTodo(input))
}
```
here `input` is the action which is `payload.text`
## Using Selector
Import `useSelector` from `react-redux`. Pass it a function that grabs the `todos` array from the state.
```JSX
const todos = useSelector((state) => state.todos);
```
## Providing
```JSX
import {Provider} from 'react-redux'
createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <App />
  </Provider>,
)
```

# Functions
## `nanoid()`:
`nanoid()`generates IDs or data objects. Values are random and change every call. 